# Notes

## Research Problem

Obtaining dialogues for machine learning or prompt optimization is extremely challenging due to heavy privacy protection mechanisms in place in numerous fields like medicine and call centers. One popular approach has been to leverage the generative power and massive pretraining of AutoRegressive Language Models, enabling works like *DiaSynth* and *MedSynth*. Currently, most approaches that use LLMs to generate synthetic dialogues use *prompt engineering* techniques like Chain of Thought (CoT), to guide LLM generation to get good outputs. Then, disfluency signals like stuttering, noise, and other artifacts are usually added via some rules based mechanism. 

In the call center space, recent research has suggested that most prominent synthetic dialogue generation methods fail to capture "full realism" of actual *peer-to-peer* conversations. 

## Research Question(s)
- What are the differences in quality between synthetic data generated by autoregressive models and diffusion models?
    - this would be more of a comprehensive study?
- *Can diffusion models finetuned on MedSynth, outperform AR models that have also been finetuned?*
- How do diffusion, AR, and hybrid (AR + Diffusion) models stack up against eachother?

## Relevant Papers
- [DiaSynth](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2409.19020)
- [MedSynth](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.01401)
- Doc2Dial
- [BluePrint](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2510.02343)
- [PersonaHub](https://huggingface.co/datasets/proj-persona/PersonaHub)

## Prompt Engineering/ Optimization
- Prompting is a form of training free alignment (getting the model to do what the human wants).
- prompting is just one dial that can be tuned, although it is the cheapest.

## Diffusion Models
- Most current/ trendy models use masked diffusion.
- How do we accurately control the quality of generation?
- Prompting techniques?

### Prompting Diffusion Models
